New presentation methods like VR experience a growing trend as alternatives to conventional screens in different terminals like tablets or mobile phones. These devices are always improving in measurements, functionality, and appearance because of this, to accommodate the mobility of modern life. Although the development process of them is still far away from being finished VR devices might be prospectively used in the same way we already use mobile phones today, at any time and everywhere. To achieve a broad utilization, it is not only important to focus on the unique user and establish hardware with high usability for the users themselves, but also something that fits all the tangentially involved people and their needs for well-being, comfort, and privacy. The most important issue to start with, which also is the topic of this paper, is the question about the current state of social acceptance of VR devices in public spaces. Before spreading out this type of gear and gaining the possibility of high sales output it is essential to find out if those devices are already accepted by society and which impacts they have on society.
In the paper “Virtual reality on the go?: a study on the social acceptance of VR glasses”[x] several researchers already tried to investigate this potential issue by showing pictures and videos of people wearing VR devices in public spaces to a group of test persons under laboratory conditions to find out more about their opinions, feelings, and reactions confronted with this subject. As we all know it is hard to put oneself in a position you only see on pictures. With the inspection of images, people will always keep a certain emotional distance to the context shown. The spontaneous confrontation with a previously completely unexpected situation in daily life might have another effect on their emotional acceptance. VR devices might be fully accepted by society, but it can also be that they evoke discomfort because people are not used to not see each other's eyes while passing by or sitting next to them on the bench. Sunglasses of course act similar but since today´s VR goggles still, cover almost half of the wearers face it cannot be generalized and needs to be examined more accurate.
In this paper, the mentioned issue will be reexamined using a field study to achieve a high validity not only in the laboratory but also in the open field.
